

RELEASE NOTES


RECENT CHANGES

* Stable release branch 1.2.x is stable in a relative sense; the
branch is being made because of upcoming major changes.

* Support for a Porter stemmer has been added.  See the INSTALL file
for details.

* There is a new, experimental "af" tool that combines most of the
functions of afindex, afsearch, and afadmin.  The old tools are
planned to be phased out over time.  Note that there are now two
versions of the tutorial (PDF), one for the old tools and one for the
new.

* Fixed bug causing multiple error messages when afindex is given bad
input files.

* The configure script now takes the --disable-xml option, which tells
it not to try to link with Xerces.


OTHER NOTES, BUGS, AND OUTSTANDING ISSUES

* Experimental "amberfishd" server.  This is part of a
proof-of-concept for the girtools project and is not currently usable
for anything.  It is not compiled by default.

* Unoptimized databases.  Amberfish can only search databases that
have been linearized with -O.  (The new af tool linearizes by
default.)

* Optimization speed.  The linearizing code is slow and needs to be
rewritten.

* Memory leaks.  There seems to be a memory leak in the search code.
We could use assistance in tracking this down.

* Indexing with '-t xml' apparently does not return an error message
(as it should) when XML support is disabled.  Not sure what it
actually does!

* Stop words.  All words are currently indexed and searched.

* Multiple documents.  The -split option (--split in the new af tool)
specifies a delimiter string to show the boundaries of multiple
documents within a file.  This should probably be enhanced a little
bit to allow characters such as '\n'.

* Using '*' alone as a search term.  This is undefined and may cause
strange behavior.

* Stability of C/C++ API.  The C/C++ interface will be undergoing
major changes.

* Phrase searching without being enabled.  Searching for a phrase in a
database that was created without -phrase (or --phrase in the new af
tool) returns no results rather than an error message.  This needs to
be fixed.

See the Bugs Tracker at http://sourceforge.net/projects/amberfish/ for
additional outstanding problems.

