.TH AF 1 "" "" "Amberfish"

.SH NAME

af \- Amberfish text retrieval software

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B af
.B [-i]
.BI [ options ]
.BI [ file
.IB ... ]
.br
.B af
.B [-s]
.BI [ options ]
.br
.B af
.B [-l]
.BI [ options ]
.br
.B af
.B [--version]

.SH DESCRIPTION

The program
.B af
is a text-based interface to Amberfish functions for indexing and
searching documents.  A simple indexing example would look something
like:

af -i -d mydb -C -vv *.txt

This creates a new database, mydb, containing an index to the set of
files, *.txt.  Here is a typical search command:

af -s -d mydb -Q 'cat & (dog | mouse)'

.SH COMMAND OPTIONS

Only one of these options can be used at a time.

.TP
.B -i, --index
Index documents (either
.I file ...
or specified via standard input if
.B -F
is used).

.TP
.B -s, --search
Search an indexed database.

.TP
.B -l, --list
List the documents contained in a database.

.TP
.B --version
Print the
.B af
version number.

.SH GENERAL OPTIONS

These options are generally available with all command options.

.TP
.BI "-d, --db " dbname
Use
.I dbname
as the database name.  With some command options such as
.BR -s ,
this option can be supplied multiple times to specify multiple
databases.

.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Show verbose output.  This option can be supplied multiple times to
increase verbosity.

.TP
.B -D, --debug
Show extremely verbose (debugging) output.  Using this option once is
equivalent to
.BR -vvvvv ,
and it can be supplied multiple times to increase verbosity further.

.SH INDEX OPTIONS

The following options can only be used together with the indexing
.RB ( -i )
command.

.TP
.B -C, --create
Create a new database, overwriting any existing one with the same
name.

.TP
.BI "-m, --memory " maximum
Set the maximum amount of memory in MB to use for indexing.

.TP
.B --phrase
Enable phrase searching.  This can only be used together with
.BR -C.

.TP
.BI "--split " delimiter
Parse input files into multiple documents at points where the
specified delimiter string is found.

.TP
.B -t, --doctype=text, --doctype=xml
Set the document type.  The default is
.BR text .
Specifying
.B xml
enables functions related to searching and retrieving within nested
tags.

.TP
.BI "--dlevel " level
The maximum resolution (levels of descent) for retrieval of nested
documents.  The default value is 1; increasing it lengthens indexing
time significantly.  Use this for XML instead of
.B --split
to subdivide documents.  Note that this only affects resolution of
elements returned from searches and is unrelated to nested queries
which have much higher (fixed) resolution.

.TP
.B --no-stem
Do not perform stemming.  This can only be used together with
.BR -C.
Normally, stemming is automatically enabled if Amberfish was compiled
with the stemming function.  This option disables stemming even if it
is available.  Note that the stemming function is not distributed with
this package and must be installed manually.

.TP
.B --long-words
Index words longer than the maximum word length.  Using this option
will cause long words to be truncated to the maximum word length, and
they can be matched by right-truncated query terms.  By default, such
words are discarded, i.e. not indexed at all.

.TP
.B --no-linear
Do not linearize the indexes in the database.  By default, the
database is automatically linearized.  Linearizing reduces searching
time but prevents any additional documents from being added to the
database.  It also considerably increases indexing time.  In the
current version, a database must be linearized before it can be
searched.  The only reason for using
.B --no-linear
is if one has a need to break up indexing into multiple invocations of
.BR af .

.TP
.B --no-linear-buffer
Do not use a memory buffer to speed up linearizing.  This option will
be removed once the linearization buffer code is reliable.  If
.B --old-linear
is used, this option does not apply.

.TP
.B --old-linear
Use the old linearization function from the stable release branch
(1.2.x).  This option will be removed once the new linearization code
is reliable.

.TP
.B -F
Read list of documents to be indexed from standard input, rather than
from the end of the command line.

.SH SEARCH OPTIONS

The following options can only be used together with the searching
.RB ( -s )
command.

.TP
.BI "-Q, --query-boolean " query_string
Search for the specified Boolean query string.

.TP
.B --style=list, --style=lineage
Set style of printed result sets.  The default is
.BR list .
Use the
.B lineage
style with XML to see hierarchical results.

.SH AUTHOR

Nassib Nassar; see http://www.etymon.com/ for updates.

Copyright (C) 1999-2004 Etymon Systems, Inc.
