doc/userguide.adoc, before:

== User guide

This user guide introduces how to search text with Amberfish.  The
`af` tool creates indexes of text documents and then allows efficient
searching of the documents using the indexes.

=== Creating an index

A typical command for creating a new index looks something like:

----
af -i -d mydb -C -v *.txt
----

The `-i` option is used for building indexes.  The files to be added
to an index are listed at the end of the command line, in this case
`*.txt`.

The `-d` option specifies a database name.  The index will be written
to a set of files that begin with this name.  In this example, files
are created with names such as `mydb.db`, `mydb.dt`, `mydb.fd`, etc.

The `-C` option creates a new database, overwriting any existing
database with the same name.  This option should not be used when
adding to an existing index.

The `-v` option prints names of the files as they are processed.

Another option, `-m` (not shown above), can be used to specify how
much memory in megabytes will be used.  Increasing memory usage should
reduce indexing time.

=== Searching

Once the index has been created, we can use it to run queries:

----
af -s -d mydb -q 'cat dog mouse'
----

The `-s` option is used for searching.

The `-q` option specifies a free-text search query, which in the
simplest case is a list of words to search for.

The search command above is roughly equivalent to this Boolean search:

----
af -s -d mydb -Q 'cat | dog | mouse'
----

The `-Q` option specifies a Boolean search query.  The `|` character
represents a Boolean "or" operator.  The queries above search for all
documents that contain "cat" or "dog" or "mouse".

A more interesting Boolean query might be:

----
af -s -d mydb -Q 'cat & (dog | mouse)'
----

The `&` character represents a Boolean "and" operator.  This query
searches for all documents that contain "cat" and also contain "dog"
or "mouse".

Both free-text and Boolean search queries are case-insensitive,
meaning that uppercase and lowercase characters are interchangeable.

The output of these searches is a list of documents taking the form:

----
<score> <dbname> <docid> <parent> <filename> <begin> <end>
----

where <score> is a relevance score, <dbname> is the database name,
<docid> is an unique number identifying the document within the
database, <parent> is the docid of a document that contains this
document (or 0 if no such relationship exists), <filename> is the name
of the file where the document is located, and <begin> and <end> are
byte offsets of the beginning and ending of the document within the
file.

=== Wildcard search

The words in a query can end with an asterisk (`*`):

----
af -s -d mydb -q 'car*'
----

In this example, `car*` finds all documents containing the word `car`,
`cars`, `carpet`, or any other word that begins with the prefix `car`.

=== Phrases

Phrase searching finds a sequence of words:

----
af -s -d mydb -q '"John Quincy Adams"'
----

The phrase is surrounded by quotation marks (`"`).  Individual words
in a phrase can end with an asterisk for wildcard searching.

Phrase searching must be enabled when the database is created by using
the `--phrase` option.

=== Multiple documents in a file

A document can consist of an entire file or a portion of a file.
Documents are identified in an index by their file name and beginning
and ending byte offsets.  By default a file is considered to be a
single document.

The `--split` index option is a basic way of dividing files into
multiple documents, for example:

----
af -i -d mydb -C --split '#####' -v *.txt
----

In the above example, any occurrences of `#####` are interpreted as
the beginning of a new document.

The list of documents in an index can be viewed with, for example:

----
af -l -d mydb
----

A document can be extracted using the `--fetch` option:

----
af --fetch <filename> <begin> <end>
----

where <filename>, <begin>, and <end> are taken from the output of `af
-s` or `af -l`.

The `--split` option does not work with the `xml` document type
(described below), which uses a different method of dividing files
into documents.

=== Field search

Many documents contain fields, such as Title, Author, Subject, etc.,
which add structure to the text.  For XML files (and potentially other
file types in the future), Amberfish queries can be restricted to
specific fields as needed.  This is enabled when creating an index by
specifying `-t xml`, for example:

----
af -i -d mydb -C -t xml -v *.xml
----

where `xml` is the "document type."  The default document type is
`text` which does not support field search.

An example of querying within a "Title" field:

----
af -s -d mydb -q 'Title/cat'
----

Commit message:

Update documentation on Boolean queries

doc/userguide.adoc, after:

== User guide

This user guide introduces how to search text with Amberfish.  The
`af` tool creates indexes of text documents and then allows efficient
searching of the documents using the indexes.

=== Creating an index

A typical command for creating a new index looks something like:

----
af -i -d mydb -C -v *.txt
----

The `-i` option is used for building indexes.  The files to be added
to an index are listed at the end of the command line, in this case
`*.txt`.

The `-d` option specifies a database name.  The index will be written
to a set of files that begin with this name.  In this example, files
are created with names such as `mydb.db`, `mydb.dt`, `mydb.fd`, etc.

The `-C` option creates a new database, overwriting any existing
database with the same name.  This option should not be used when
adding to an existing index.

The `-v` option prints names of the files as they are processed.

Another option, `-m` (not shown above), can be used to specify how
much memory in megabytes will be used.  Increasing memory usage can
significantly reduce indexing time.

=== Searching

Once the index has been created, we can use it to run queries:

----
af -s -d mydb -q 'cat dog mouse'
----

The `-s` option is used for searching.

The `-q` option specifies a free-text search query, which is
effectively a list of words to search for.

The search command above is roughly equivalent to this Boolean search:

----
af -s -d mydb -Q 'cat or dog or mouse'
----

The `-Q` option specifies a Boolean search query, in which "or" acts
as a Boolean operator.  This query searches for all documents that
contain "cat" or "dog" or "mouse".

A more interesting Boolean query might be:

----
af -s -d mydb -Q 'cat and (dog or mouse)'
----

This searches for all documents that contain "cat" and also contain
"dog" or "mouse".

Both free-text and Boolean search queries are case-insensitive,
meaning that uppercase and lowercase characters are interchangeable.

The output of these searches is a list of documents taking the form:

----
<score> <dbname> <docid> <parent> <filename> <begin> <end>
----

where <score> is a relevance score, <dbname> is the database name,
<docid> is an unique number identifying the document within the
database, <parent> is the docid of a document that contains this
document (or 0 if no such relationship exists), <filename> is the name
of the file where the document is located, and <begin> and <end> are
byte offsets of the beginning and ending of the document within the
file.

=== Wildcard search

The words in a query can end with an asterisk (`*`):

----
af -s -d mydb -q 'car*'
----

In this example, `car*` finds all documents containing the word `car`,
`cars`, `carpet`, or any other word that begins with the prefix `car`.

=== Phrases

Phrase searching finds a sequence of words:

----
af -s -d mydb -q '"John Quincy Adams"'
----

The phrase is surrounded by quotation marks (`"`).  Individual words
in a phrase can end with an asterisk for wildcard searching.

Phrase searching must be enabled when the database is created by using
the `--phrase` option.

=== Multiple documents in a file

A document can consist of an entire file or a portion of a file.
Documents are identified in an index by their file name and beginning
and ending byte offsets.  By default a file is considered to be a
single document.

The `--split` index option is a basic way of dividing files into
multiple documents, for example:

----
af -i -d mydb -C --split '#####' -v *.txt
----

In the above example, any occurrences of `#####` are interpreted as
the beginning of a new document.

The list of documents in an index can be viewed with, for example:

----
af -l -d mydb
----

A document can be extracted using the `--fetch` option:

----
af --fetch <filename> <begin> <end>
----

where <filename>, <begin>, and <end> are taken from the output of `af
-s` or `af -l`.

The `--split` option does not work with the `xml` document type
(described below), which uses a different method of dividing files
into documents.

=== Field search

Many documents contain fields, such as Title, Author, Subject, etc.,
which add structure to the text.  For XML files (and potentially other
file types in the future), Amberfish queries can be restricted to
specific fields as needed.  This is enabled when creating an index by
specifying `-t xml`, for example:

----
af -i -d mydb -C -t xml -v *.xml
----

where `xml` is the "document type."  The default document type is
`text` which does not support field search.

An example of querying within a "Title" field:

----
af -s -d mydb -q 'Title/cat'
----
